<script>{
    "title": "jQuery Mobile 1.4.0 Changelog",
     "pageTemplate": "page-contentfull.php"
}</script>

## New features

### Alpha 1:
* Theming: The active and focus styles are now themeable
* Links: Deprecated class ui-link. One style for links in body and bars (bar link colors were never themeable in ThemeRoller)
* Controlgroup: Added option theme
* Popup: New feature popup arrow
* Slider: New feature slider tooltip
* Touch events now have teardown methods
* New option for taphold event ```$.special.event.tap.emitTapOnTaphold default = true;```
* New widget Toolbar: replaces page.sections (which is removed) and handles all header and footer bars
* Fixed Toolbars are now an extension on the toolbar widget
* Toolbars work outside of pages
* True persistant Toolbars
* Textinput: added option corners
* Slider and Rangeslider: added option corners.
* New set of vector-based icons from Glyphish with fallbacks via Grunticon
* Base tag support https://github.com/jquery/jquery-mobile/issues/3978
* New flip switch widget
* New filterable widget
* Integrated UI tabs widget
* Popup work outside of pages
* Panel work outside of pages
* Option wrapperClass to add custom classes to a generated wrapper
* All widgets (excluding listview, tables, and selectmenu) have options that can be set after the widget has been instantiated
* All widgets (excluding listview, tables, and selectmenu) have an option named "enhanced" that allows you to provide the markup the widget itself would generate, thus saving startup time
* Table now also has a rebuild method that makes it possible to dynamically add columns

### Alpha 2:
* Autoinit: Now any widget included in a jquery mobile site will get automatic init by using ```data-role=”widgetname”```
* ```$.fn.enhanceWithin()``` to enhance all content within the selected element
* Textinput: Option ```inset``` was introduced in 1.4.0 Alpha 1 to style the filterable input when used in combination with a listview. This option has been removed. Class ```ui-filterable``` is used to adjust the style.
* Added dialog extension for page which simply styles a page as a dialog to replace deprecated dialog widget.

### Beta 1:
* Setting ```data-defaults=”true”``` will skip checking of data-attributes for widget options

## Changes

### Alpha 1:
* Theming: The theme swatch for pages does no longer default to "c" but "a". Dialog overlays still default to "a". The loader theme defaults to "a" instead of "e". Headers and footers don’t have default "a" anymore but inherit the page theme. List dividers don’t default to "b" but inherit the list theme. Count bubbles in listviews don’t default to "c" anymore, but inherit from the LI/button/divider. Count bubbles in multiple selects always had theme "c" but now always inherit the theme from the button.
* Button style: We now use the same padding and icon positioning rules for all elements that are styled as button and changed px values to em values.
* Option mini: We don’t set specific padding values for ui-mini anymore, but only set a smaller font-size. Because we use em values now, the padding will still be adjusted. Instead of ```data-mini="true"``` you can add class ui-mini to a container. Now it’s also very easy to use a media query to only apply the mini size at a certain screen width.
* Icons: We use :after pseudo element for icons instead of adding a span with class ui-icon. The icon class ```(ui-icon-[iconname])``` is added to the button.
* data-add-back-btn now set on toolbar not page
* Listview filter has been replaced by new generic filter widget ("filterable")
* Panel: Always scroll to top when opening a panel, unless it’s a fixed panel

### Alpha 2:
* Count bubbles in listviews and the custom selectmenu button now use body theme.
* Collapsible: content theme is inherited from container by default and can be set to false to have no theme.

### Beta 1:
* Classes ```“ui-icon-nodisc”``` and ```“ui-icon-alt”``` have been renamed to ui-nodisc-icon and ui-alt-icon, because using the same naming structure as for icon classes ```(ui-icon-search, ui-icon-delete, etc.)``` was causing conflicts.
* Default for panel option theme is now null (inherit) instead of “a”.
* Widgets outside pages inherited the theme from the overlay but we reverted this change because of conflicts during transitions. You have to set a theme for widgets outside a page.
* Renamed content widget to pagecontainer widget

## Removal

Alpha 1:
* No generating of inner button markup (```.ui-btn-inner``` and ```.ui-btn-text```) anymore. For linked listviews this means the anchor is now the button and no longer get class .ui-link-inherit.
* Listviews: We no longer add the classes ```ui-li-has-arrow``` (list item) and ```ui-btn-icon-right``` (list button).
* Button: Button elements are no longer wrapped in a div. Inputs type submit and reset used to get class ui-submit on the wrapper div. This has been changed to class ```ui-input-btn``` and also applies to input type button. The native input element no longer gets class ```ui-btn-hidden```.
* Form labels: Labels no longer get a class (they used to get the widget class).
* Listview: Removed nested listview feature (deprecated in 1.3).
* Dropped support for IE7 and BB5 (now C-grade)

### Alpha 2:
* Listviews: List buttons with icons get the ```ui-btn-icon-right``` class again.

## Deprecation

### Alpha 1:
* Deprecated auto-enhancement of links in toolbars: https://github.com/jquery/jquery-mobile/issues/5933
* Deprecated class ```ui-disabled```. Use class ```ui-state-disabled``` instead.
* Deprecated class ui-btn-corner-all. One corner class: ```ui-corner-all``` (corner radii for buttons have selector ```.ui-btn.ui-corner-all```).
* Listviews thumbs and icons (small image left): The feature to auto-detect thumbs and icons has been deprecated to improve performance. If a list item (read-only) or button (linked) contains a thumb you have to add class ui-li-has-thumb to the LI. If it contains an icon you have to add ```ui-li-has-icon``` to the LI and don’t have to add class ui-li-icon to the image element anymore. Also, the framework doesn’t add class ```ui-li-thumb``` anymore in 1.4.
* Theming inheritance: Deprecated ```getInheritedTheme()```. Theme inheritance is done with CSS now.
* Deprecated ```data-role="field-contain"```. Just add class "ui-field-contain".
* Icon shadow: Deprecated option iconshadow for buttons and select. You can use class ui-shadow-icon on a container or a button (same as ui-icon-alt and ui-icon-nodisc). Also work with listviews, controlgroups, checkbox/radio, etc. that didn’t have option iconshadow.
* The second pagebeforechange has been replaced with pagebeforetransition. Both will be triggered for compatibility
* Deprecated current persistent fixed toolbars in favor of true persistent (outside page)
* Deprecated current dialog widget. Dialog will become an option in the page widget.
* Deprecated current slider widget. We are going to refactor or replace the slider widget in next version.
* Deprecated input element generation for filter
* Deprecated filterPlaceholder option for filterable - just provide your own input via the data-input option
* Deprecated filterTheme option for filterable - just provide your own input via the data-input option
* Deprecated current behaviour of stripping query strings from hashes. Starting in 1.5 we’ll be following spec on hashes and provide a hook to handle custom navigation.

### Alpha 2:
* Deprecated reading DOM parameters from buttonMarkup. If you call buttonMarkup, pass buttonMarkup-related options into the function via its options parameter, not via the element that needs to be enhanced.
* Deprecated calling create to enhance a container or widget ```$.fn.enhanceWithin()``` will now be the method to enhance containers
* Deprecated ```setContainerBackground``` and ```removeContainerBakcground``` instead set option on content widget
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.pageContainer``` with new content widget there can be more then one page container
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.changePage```
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.loadPage```
* Deprecated ```degradeInputs``` option on page will now be global ```$.mobile.degradeInputs```
* Deprecated ```keepNativeSelector``` on page widget and ```keepNative``` option on page widget will be replace by ```$.mobile.keepNative``` which will just be a string selector
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.subPageUrlKey``` was only used by nested listview which is deprecated
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.*``` for any class options most of these will be removed remaining ones will move to something like ```$.mobile.classes``` which will be an object
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.minScrollBack``` any amount of scrolling will be preserved to match native behavior changing default to 0 until 1.5 when it will be removed
* Deprecated adding aria role and classes to content and use of ```data-role=content``` you can add class ```.ui-content``` and theme and aria your self
* Deprecated the application of class ```ui-link``` to anchors. The CSS now selects anchors directly.
* Deprecated class ```ui-li-has-icon``` (you can override height/width rules to match your image size). We provide class ```ui-li-thumb``` to position elements other than img.
* Deprecated listview option countTheme. As from 1.5 the count bubble will inherit the theme from its container or you can add class ```ui-body-[a-z]``` to the ```ui-li-count``` element to specify a theme.

### Beta 1:
* Deprecated class ```ui-hide-label``` (was meant to be used with field containers). Basically it negated the effect of field containers so you get the same result by not using field containers and adding class ```ui-hidden-accessible``` to the label.
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.activePageClass```, ```$.mobile.activeBtnClass```, ```$.mobile.focusClass```
* Deprecated ```buttonMarkup``` method
* Deprecated ```table-stroke``` and ```table-stripe``` classes
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.getDocumentUrl``` and ```$.mobile.getDocumentBase``` – both are available from ```$.mobile.path```
* Deprecated ```$.mobile.activePage```. Use the ```getActivePage``` method on content widget or ```activePage``` property
